## Specification

#tags 

A/ Implement your program in a file called readability.c in a directory called readability. ✔️

B/ Your program must prompt the user for a string of text using **get_string**. ✔️

C/ Your program should **count** the number of letters, words, and sentences in the text.

IF readability is text, count sentences, words and letters

`string text` starts at text[i] (where i = 0) and Ends when text is '\0' 

==variables==
n = strlen(text)
char c[n + 1];
int word

--> do {
readability
}
while (text[i] != '\0')

// Start with sentences
count_s:
Sentences end with   =='.'==, =='!'== *and/or* =='?'==

// Second is words
count_w
Words equal (number of) letters in (text) separated by ==' '==, =='\n',== =='\t'== (`isspace()`)
calculate words = 
do
{
 counter of `text` iterates when `ispace`. 
 At `ispace` counter value:
     - Word counter increments of 1
}
// Third is letters
 `isalpha(c)`
- Letters are any alphanumeric (char) element in (text)
- Counter(i) increments whenever the above condition is met
  - Counter(i) remains Counter(i) whenever condition is not met  

count_l `isalpha(c)` = (`isupper(c)` || islower(c)) where 'c' is char
    {
        if (`isalpha(c[i])`)
        {
            count_l++;
            letters = count_l;
        }
        if else (`isspace()`)
        {
             count_l =  0; Reset counter
        }
        return letters;
    }

You may assume that a letter is any **lowercase** (`islower()`) character _from a to z_  or any **uppercase** (`isupper()`) character _from A to Z_,
**_any sequence of characters separated by spaces should count as a word,_**
and **_that any occurrence of a period, exclamation point, or question mark indicates the end of a sentence_**.

D/ Your program should print as output "Grade X" where X is the grade level computed by the Coleman-Liau formula,
rounded to the nearest integer.

E/ If the resulting index number is 16 or higher
(equivalent to or greater than a senior undergraduate reading level),
your program should output "Grade 16+" instead of giving the exact index number.
If the index number is less than 1, your program should output "Before Grade 1".

## Solving

A/  Getting User's Input
Specifically, implement in readability.c a main function that prompts the user with "Text: " using get_string
 and then prints that same text using printf. !Be sure to #include any necessary header files.! DONE

B/ Letters
- Consider letters to be uppercase or lowercase alphabetical character,
not punctuation, digits, or other symbols.
- Add to readability.c, below main, a function called count_letters that takes one argument,
a string of text, and that returns an int, the number of letters in that text.
Be sure to add the function’s prototype, too, atop your file, so that main knows how to call it. DONE
==> Count letters = step 1. count letters per sentence. Define a letter.

si counter rencontre non alphabetical