1. [Physical Layer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Physical_layer): The physical layer is responsible for the transmission and reception of unstructured raw data between a device and a physical transmission medium. It converts the digital bits into electrical, radio, or optical signals. Layer specifications define characteristics such as voltage levels, the timing of voltage changes, physical data rates, maximum transmission distances, modulation scheme, channel access method and physical connectors.
2. [Data Link Layer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_link_layer): The data link layer provides node-to-node data transfer—a link between two directly connected nodes. It detects and possibly corrects errors that may occur in the physical layer.
3. [Network Layer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_layer): The network layer provides the functional and procedural means of transferring variable length data sequences (called packets) from one node to another connected in "different networks".
4. [Transport Layer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transport_layer): The transport layer provides the functional and procedural means of transferring variable-length data sequences from a source to a destination host, while maintaining the quality of service functions.
==The protocols of this layer provide host-to-host communication services for applications.==
5.  [Session Layer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Session_layer): The session layer controls the dialogues (connections) between computers. It establishes, manages and terminates the connections between the local and remote application. It provides for full-duplex, half-duplex, or simplex operation, and establishes procedures for checkpointing, suspending, restarting, and terminating a session.    

6. [Presentation Layer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Presentation_layer): The presentation layer establishes context between application-layer entities, in which the application-layer entities may use different syntax and semantics if the presentation service provides a mapping between them. If a mapping is available, presentation protocol data units are encapsulated into session protocol data units and passed down the protocol stack.
7. [Application Layer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Application_layer): The application layer is the OSI layer closest to the end user, which means both the OSI application layer and the user interact directly with the software application. interacts with software applications that implement a communicating component.
    - Application-layer functions typically include identifying communication partners, determining resource availability, and synchronizing communication. 
    - When identifying communication partners, the application layer determines the identity and availability of communication partners for an application with data to transmit.
    - ==The application layer has no means to determine the availability of resources in the network.==

[[OSI-model layers]]