###### Date : 2021-01-28, Thursday 
###### Time : 04:09


Project name: DiFfrenZZ Kaizen
Topic(s): [Readme, Brief, Scope]
Links:
Tags: ['#kaizen', '#diffrenzz', '#readme', '#draft']

---




### Project Brief

#### Option A
-   Project goals: 
    
    - [ ] Showcase current knowledge, skills, and organizational methods
    - [ ] Increase professional credibility
    - [ ] Focus self learning around professional objectives
    - [ ] Strengthen a network of collaborators that promote better comprehension, faster conception, and safer product deliveries (apps, websites,...)
    - [ ] Build a solid collection of resources off- and online related to one, several or all objectives
    - [ ] Illustrate flexibility other specific or unrelated domains

* Others*
    - [ ] Design a solid structure
    - [ ] List the tools, methodologies and resources
    - [ ] Establish an Index with links to headers, sub-headers, websites and repositories
    - [ ] Develop faster
    - [ ] Debug quicker
    - [ ] Promote better


-   The client or team’s intended process or methodology

-   The team and their expertise
-   Expectations on deliverables, including iteration and collaboration when creating and revising them
    -  [ ] First deliverable 
-   Who your client’s stakeholders and, specifically, main decision-makers are
    * I, the project initiator, am the main stakeholder and decision maker
    * Any developer, writer, or professional contributing to this project


-   The amount of time the client will need to review work and provide feedback
    * Three layers of information are made available for quick review by hiring parties or observers: 
        1. Resume, CV and documentation 10 min
        2. Organigram detailing the composition of the project.
        3. Index and List of Resources.
     The material should allow the reviewer to have a clear idea whether or not the individual is matching the current position from the first layer. The other layer should be made concise and conceived to allow the observer to obtain detailed but brief data on the individual methodologies, social demeanor and working tools.
     
-   Dependencies
-   Deadlines

#### Option B
* What are the major deliverables? 
* How will we get to those deliverables and deadlines?
* Who is in the project team and what role will they play in those deliverables?
* When will the team meet milestones, and when will other members of the team play a role in contributing to or providing feedback on those deliverables?
* 
* # Scope

#kaizen #project #scope #brief

- Project goals:
- [ ] Design a solid structure
- [ ] List the tools, methodologies and resource
- [ ] Establish an Index with links to headers, sub-headers, websites and repositories
- [ ] Develop faster
- [ ] Debug quicker
- [ ] Promote better


- Requirements
- Major deliverables
    - CV
    - Resume
    - Websites
    - Projects
    - Articles
    - Blog
    - Contributions


- Key milestones
- Assumptions
- Exclusions:
- Costs:
- Constraints:
    - Time: 1st deliverable is planned for Monday, February the 1st  at 07:00 o'clock local time.

The following is a list of learning objectives and already known topics with links to resources.

## Career Personal Objectives
   - Becoming a competent Full-Stack React-Developer:
   - Control and manage different type of implementations in order to intervene at any level of the Development LifeCycle of a project

## Project Highlights

- [ ] Showcase programming readability, skills and scope.
- [ ] Showcase personal investment into developing knowledge, IT-related topics & environment, management & project overview capabilities.
- [ ] Demonstrate  resilience into achieving objectives that include complex tasks and processes over time.

## Project Management

Intro
-  Time Management
-  Priority Management
    * [workfront.com](https://www.workfront.com/project-management/knowledge-areas/time-management/priorities-management)
-  Priority Management
-  Tools
    * Incident Management Tool: Jira

### Project Management Framework

### Project Management Tools

---
Terraform

---

## Repository Management
### Conventions

#### Naming branches

During a run, at all times, should prevail 2 branches:
    * "development"
    *  "master"
    
##### Branch types

 The branch type should be made clear *even before* apprehending her main objective.
 * Types include (among others):
     - feature: add functionality(-ies)
     - bugfix: bug fixing
     - hotfix: critical bug fix
     - chore: "cleaning" Code
     - experiment: Test of functionalities
 
 ##### Branch's name
 
 The name of the branch should describe succintly describe its role/goal.
 Some rules should be followed:
    - name should contain less than 50 characters
    - name should respect kekab-case pattern (words are lowercase and spaces in between are linked together with dashes)
 

    *

## Editing Articles
- Dev

---

## Teaching

### Shared Code Editor
   - [CodeShare.io](https://codeshare.io/)
   - [Codesandbox.io](https://codesandbox.io) (React able)
    
### Promotion
- Social Media




