###### Date : 2021-01-28, Thursday 
###### Time : 04:15


Project name: DiFfrenZZ Kaizen
Topic(s): [Plan, Wireframe]
Links:
Tags: ['#kaizen', '#diffrenzz', '#wireframe', '#draft']




# Project - Portfolio

NB: 
* Differences between Project Brief and Scope of work
    - Project Brief is a raw overview of a project. Written at the very start. Unskilled workers can participate. Should not be returned to the client.
    -> Once modified, evolves into Scope of Work
    - Scope of Work is a sketch, summary of key markers submitted to specialists, clients or stakeholders to give a perspective on the (sometimes ongoing) projects.


## Index

#### [[Resources]]

#### Project Requirement:


### Project Brief

#### Option A
-   Project goals
-   The client or team’s intended process or methodology
-   The team and their expertise
-   Expectations on deliverables, including iteration and collaboration when creating and revising them
-   Who your client’s stakeholders and, specifically, main decision-makers are
-   The amount of time the client will need to review work and provide feedback
-   Dependencies
-   Deadlines

#### Option B
* What are the major deliverables? 
* How will we get to those deliverables and deadlines?
* Who is in the project team and what role will they play in those deliverables?
* When will the team meet milestones, and when will other members of the team play a role in contributing to or providing feedback on those deliverables?


### Scope ( bottom)


- Project goals
- Requirements
- Major deliverables
- Key milestones
- Assumptions
- Exclusions:
- Costs:
- Constraints 


- List of e
- Business Case:
- Project Objectives:
- Major Deliverable:
- Roles & Responsibilities:
- Stakeholder:
- Assumptions: 

 


#### Quick Notes:

PKM involves the application to problem solving of analytical, information, social, and learning dimensions, which are interrelated ([Wright 2007](https://www.wikiwand.com/en/Personal_knowledge_management#CITEREFWright2007)), and so is inherently social.

Skills associated with personal knowledge management include:

   - [ ] Reflection. Continuous improvement on how the individual operates.
   - [ ] Manage learning. Manage how and when the individual learns.
    - [ ] Information literacy. Understanding what information is important and how to find unknown information.
    - [ ] Organizational skills. Personal librarianship. Personal categorization and taxonomies.
    - [ ] Networking with others. Knowing what your network of people knows. Knowing who might have additional knowledge and resources to help you
    - [ ] Researching, canvassing, paying attention, interviewing and observational "cultural anthropology" skills
    - [ ] Communication skills. Perception, intuition, expression, visualization and interpretation.
    - [ ] Creative skills. Imagination, pattern recognition, appreciation, innovation, inference. Understanding of complex adaptive systems.
    - [ ] Collaboration skills. Coordination, synchronization, experimentation, cooperation and design.


"Portfolio" showcases skills in:
- Personal Information Management
- Project Management
- Repositories management
- Editing & Writing
- Coding
- Debugging
- Tools & Methodologies
- Social Presence 