# To review
## Description
> _The following, contains notes, and questions from quizzes where I should focus on while preparing for the exam_

##### Question 4 of 30  You got this incorrect. You chose A. Objective: Salesforce Fundamentals

**Universal Containers uses a private sharing model for Cases. Each product line has several product specialists who want to have visibility to all Cases involving their product line.**

**How should the System Administrator meet this requirement?**

A. Create an owner-based Case Sharing Rule to share corresponding Cases with the product specialist role.
**_Incorrect. Use a case team to allow the group of people to work together to solve cases._**
B. Change the Org-Wide Default for Cases to Controlled By Parent and add product specialists to Account Teams.
Incorrect. Use a case team to allow the group of people to work together to solve cases.
C. Add the product specialists to the Account Team for each Account that has purchased a product from the product line.
Incorrect. Use a case team to allow the group of people to work together to solve cases.
==D. Create a pre-defined [[Case Team|Case Team]] for each group of product specialists and assign the team using Case Assignment Rules.
Correct. A case team is a group of people that work together to solve cases.==

##### Question 5 of 30  You got this incorrect. You chose B D. Objective: Salesforce Fundamentals

**Ursa Major is onboarding 15 new employees in three weeks. The administrator needs to create user records in Salesforce without activating them.**

**Which two methods allow the administrator to achieve this goal?**

_Choose 2 options._
A. Click Add Multiple Users and ensure that Generate New Password and Notify User Immediately are unchecked.
Correct. An Admin can manually create mutiple users with the Generate New Password and Notify User Immediately box unchecked.
B. Create a .csv file ensuring that IsActive = False, and use the data loader to insert.
Correct. With a properly formatted csv file, Data Loader can be used to create multiple users. Include the IsActive = false to create the users in an inactive status.
C. Schedule a Time-Dependent Workflow to create users in three weeks.
**_Incorrect. Workflow cannot create users._**
D. Create them with the User Import Wizard and ensure that Active is unchecked.
**_Incorrect. Users cannot be created with the import wizard._**

##### Question 6 of 30  You got this incorrect. You chose D. Objective: Sales and Marketing Applications

Universal Containers has an inside sales team that only sells warranty renewals and an outside sales team that only sells products. Each type of sale captures different information and has a different sales cycle.

How should the System Administrator configure Salesforce to meet these requirements?
A. Create a custom Object for warranty renewals with the appropriate Sales Process.
Incorrect. Use record types to offer different business processes, picklist values, and page layouts to different users.
==B. Create a Page Layout, Sales Process, and Record Type for each type of sale.
**Correct. Record types offer different business processes, picklist values, and page layouts to different users.**==
C. Create a custom picklist field on the Opportunity to specify if it is a product or warranty sale.
Incorrect. Use record types to offer different business processes, picklist values, and page layouts to different users.
D. Create a Validation Rule that displays the correct Page Layout and Sales Process based on Role.
**_Incorrect. Use record types to offer different business processes, picklist values, and page layouts to different users._**

##### Question 8 of 30  You got this incorrect. You chose B. Objective: Salesforce Fundamentals

**An administrator at Ursa Major Solar is implementing an organization-wide default option for the Account object.**

**What is a correct option for the administrator in this scenario?**
==A. Private
Correct. An admin would want to choose Private access at an org-wide level, because you can always open up access from the org-wide default, but you cannot restrict access.==
B. Public Read/Write/Delete
**_Incorrect. An admin would not want everyone in the org to have Read/Write/Delete access, and you cannot restrict access from the org-wide default level, so you would want to start with a more restrictive default, and open access from there._**
C. No Access
**_Incorrect. No access would not allow anyone in the organization to access the Account object._**
D. Public Read/Write/Transfer
Incorrect. An admin would not want everyone in the org to have Read/Write/Transfer access, and you cannot restrict access from the org-wide default level, so you would want to start with a more restrictive default, and open access from there.

##### Question 9 of 30  You got this incorrect. You chose B. Objective: Data & Analytics Management

**Which report should a System Administrator use to <u>display the number of Contacts related to an Account</u>?**
A. Tabular report with a Roll-up Summary Account field
Incorrect. Write summary formulas to evaluate a report's group subtotals and grand totals.
B. Summary report with a Roll-up Summary Account field
Incorrect. Write summary formulas to evaluate a report's group subtotals and grand totals.
C. Tabular report with a report formula
Incorrect. Write summary formulas to evaluate a report's group subtotals and grand totals.
==D. Summary report with a report formula
Correct. Write summary formulas to evaluate a report's group subtotals and grand totals.== 

##### Question 10 of 30  You got this incorrect. You chose B C D. Objective: Data & Analytics Management

Which three reports can be used to display a list of the Top 10 Accounts on a dashboard?

_Choose 3 options._
A. [[Tabular, Summary and Matrix Salesforce Reports|Summary report]] with a chart
==Correct. The default two-column table uses the first grouping and summary field from the chart in the source report. If the report has no chart, default columns are based on the first grouping and summary field in the report.==
**B. [[Tabular, Summary and Matrix Salesforce Reports|Tabular report with a chart]]
Incorrect. Use a tabular report as the source report **.
C. Tabular report with Rows to Display set to 10
==Correct. Use a tabular report as the source report ==.
**D. Summary report with Rows to Display set to 10
_Incorrect. The default two-column table uses the first grouping and summary field from the chart in the source report. If the report has no chart, default columns are based on the first grouping and summary field in the report._**
E. Summary report without a chart
==Correct. The default two-column table uses the first grouping and summary field from the chart in the source report. If the report has no chart, default columns are based on the first grouping and summary field in the report.==

##### Question 11 of 30  You got this incorrect. You chose B. Objective: Data & Analytics Management

**Ursa Major Solar is looking into backup methods.**

Which set of small and large data backup methods are available in native Salesforce?
A. Mass Export Wizard, Weekly Data Export Service, and Data Loader Exports
Incorrect. Mass exports are not available.
B. Data Loader Exports, Mass Exports, and Weekly Data Export Service
**_Incorrect. Mass exports are not available._**
C. Report Exports, Dashboard Exports, and Weekly Data Export Service
**_Incorrect. Dashboards are not available for backup._**
D. Data Loader Exports, Report Exports, and Weekly Data Export Service
==Correct. Data can be backed up via Data Loader Exports, Report Exports, and Weekly Data Export Service.==

##### Question 13 of 30  You got this incorrect. You chose B. Objective: Data & Analytics Management

**Which configuration option shows sales representatives the fields they must fill in prior to saving an Opportunity?**
A. Dependent Picklist Fields
Incorrect. Make the field required on a specific page layout.
B. Opportunity Validation Rules
**_Incorrect. Make the field required on a specific page layout._**
C. Field-level Security
Incorrect. Make the field required on a specific page layout.
D. Page Layout required fields
==Correct. Make the field required on a specific page layout.==

##### Question 14 of 30  You got this incorrect. You chose A. Objective: Data & Analytics Management

**Ursa Major Solar is importing data and has many records that do NOT meet the data validation criteria.**

**What will occur?**

A. The import process will require user authorization in order to import the invalid records.
**_Incorrect. Salesforce runs validation rules on records before they are imported. Records that fail validation are not imported._**
B. The import process will fail, but only for the records with invalid data.
==Correct. Salesforce runs validation rules on records before they are imported. Records that fail validation are not imported.==
C. The import process will ignore the data validation criteria.
Incorrect. Salesforce runs validation rules on records before they are imported. Records that fail validation are not imported.
D. The import process will abort when it encounters the first invalid record.
Incorrect. Salesforce runs validation rules on records before they are imported. Records that fail validation are not imported.

##### Question 15 of 30  You got this incorrect. You chose A. Objective: Sales and Marketing Applications

**_How should the System Administrator implement biweekly notifications for Sales Reps that include Opportunities that need attention based on the Opportunity Owner's last login, past due Opportunities, and all Opportunities that have not been updated in the last 30 days?_**
A. Create Scheduled Reports.
**Incorrect. Scheduled reports would not be able to be schedule based on the user's last login.**
B. Create Opportunity [[Update Reminders|Update Reminders]].
==Correct. Opportunity update reminders allow managers to automatically send and schedule emails that include a report of the team's open opportunities to direct reports. You can select the fields you want to include in the reminders such as last login date, or # not updated in the last 30 days.==
C. Create Scheduled Dashboards.
Incorrect. Scheduled dashboards would not be able to be schedule based on the user's last login.
D. Create a Chatter Group.
Incorrect. A Chatter group would not post reminders based on the user's last login.

##### Question 16 of 30  You got this incorrect. You chose C. Objective: Salesforce Fundamentals

Ursa Major Solar recently purchased 15 new Salesforce licenses.

How many users can an administrator create at the same time on the add multiple users page?
A. A maximum of 10 users.
==Correct. You can add up to 10 users at a time to your organization.==
B. An unlimited number of users.
Incorrect. You can add up to 10 users at a time to your organization.
C. A maximum of 15 users.
Incorrect. You can add up to 10 users at a time to your organization.
D. A maximum of 5 users.
Incorrect. You can add up to 10 users at a time to your organization.

##### Question 18 of 30  You got this incorrect. You chose A D. Objective: Sales and Marketing Applications

**Which two related lists should be added to the Opportunity page layout to track how Campaigns contribute to the overall pipeline?**

_Choose 2 options._
A. Contact Roles
==Correct. Opportunity contact roles specify the part that each contact plays in a deal.==
B. Campaign Influence
==Correct. The Campaign Influence tool helps attribute a percentage of success to influential campaigns.==
C. Campaign Members
**_Incorrect. Campaign members are contacts or leads associated with campaigns._**
D. Open Activities
**_Incorrect. Open Activities will not help track campaign information._**

##### Question 19 of 30  You got this incorrect. You chose A. Objective: Salesforce Fundamentals

**At Ursa Major Solar, an administrator has set up a new user. The user needs to activate the account before the email link expires by default.**

**How long does the user have before the link expires?**

A. 6 days
**_Incorrect. The account verification link emailed to new users expires after 7 days, and users must change their password the first time they log in._**
B. 14 days
Incorrect. The account verification link emailed to new users expires after 7 days, and users must change their password the first time they log in.
C. 7 days
==Correct. The account verification link emailed to new users expires after 7 days, and users must change their password the first time they log in.==
D. 10 days
Incorrect. The account verification link emailed to new users expires after 7 days, and users must change their password the first time they log in.

##### Question 22 of 30  You got this incorrect. You chose A. Objective: Productivity & Collaboration

**Users at Universal Containers (UC) adhere to the following process for expense reports:**

- Create the expense report.
- Attach receipts in an Expenses app.
- Send the report to the accountant to review and approve.

**An administrator needs to enable this app for Salesforce Mobile.**

**What should the administrator consider from the User's perspective?**

A. A user can create list views, attach receipts as photos, and submit records for approval.
**_Incorrect. List views are not able to be submitted for approval._**
B. A user can create records, attach receipts as photos, and submit for approval.
==Correct. An approval process automates how records are approved in Salesforce.==
C. A user can utilize Search, create list views, and receive record push notifications from Chatter.
Incorrect. An approval process automates how records are approved in Salesforce.
D. A user can search Salesforce Records, attach receipts as photos, and approve records from Chatter.
Incorrect. An approval process automates how records are approved in Salesforce.

##### Question 23 of 30  You got this incorrect. You chose C. Objective: Object Manager & Lightning App Builder

**Ursa Major Solar has the following process regarding its opportunities:**

- There are three different lines of business (Widget A, Widget B, Widget C) that each contain fields specific to that line of business's industry and customers.
- For each line of business, there is a specific set of fields that Sales users should see and a different set of fields that Marketing users should see.

**An Administrator needs to configure Page Layouts and Record Types for the Opportunity object so that each team sees what it needs to see, without cluttered layouts containing unnecessary fields.**

**What should the Administrator do to accomplish this goal?**
A. Create six Record Types (Marketing Widget A, Marketing Widget B, Marketing Widget C, Sales Widget A, Sales Widget B, and Sales Widget C) with six total Page Layouts, one for each Record Type.
Incorrect. Record types let you offer different business processes, picklist values, and page layouts to different users. Only three record types are needed to track the different widget types. Six page layouts to provide the proper fields for each group.
B. Create three Record Types (Widget A, Widget B, Widget C) with six Page Layouts (Sales Widget A, Sales Widget B, Sales Widget C, Marketing Widget A, Marketing Widget B, and Marketing Widget C).
==Correct. Record types let you offer different business processes, picklist values, and page layouts to different users. Three record types to track the different widget types. Six page layouts to provide the proper fields for each group.==
C. Create one Record Type with six Page Layouts (Marketing Widget A, Marketing Widget B, Marketing Widget C, Sales Widget A, Sales Widget B, and Sales Widget C).
**_Incorrect. Record types let you offer different business processes, picklist values, and page layouts to different users. Three record types are needed to track the different widget types. Six page layouts to provide the proper fields for each group._**
D. Create six Record Types (Sales Widget A, Sales Widget B, Sales Widget C, Marketing Widget A, Marketing Widget B, and Marketing Widget C) with one Page Layout.
Incorrect. Record types let you offer different business processes, picklist values, and page layouts to different users. Only three record types are needed to track the different widget types. Six page layouts to provide the proper fields for each group.

##### Question 30 of 30  You got this incorrect. You chose A. Objective: Workflow/Process Automation

**Universal Containers has asked its Administrator to automatically set some fields when a Lead is created.**

**What is the best way for the administrator to perform this automation?**

A. Use Process Builder that launches a flow
**_Incorrect. Update new and changed records by using before-save updates in flows._**
B. Use a Screen Flow with default values
Incorrect. Update new and changed records by using before-save updates in flows.
C. Record Triggered-Flow that runs Before save
==Correct. Update new and changed records by using before-save updates in flows.==
D. Create 1 Workflow rule per field
Incorrect. Update new and changed records by using before-save updates in flows.