## Sessions

### Quick Review

- ==HTTP== **is stateless**,[^1]
- **Cookies** and **URL parameters** are both suitable ways to _transport data between the client and the server_.
> They are both ==readable== and on the ==client side==.

### Why Sessions ?

* We need a way to store user data between HTTP requets
* We need 'privacy' from / to **_secure data_**

### What Sessions do ?

- Assign the client an ID

    - Make further requests using the ID.

    - Information associated with the client is stored on the server linked to this ID.

#### Options

`express-session` accepts these properties in the options object.

##### cookie

Settings object for the session ID cookie. The default value is `{ path: '/', httpOnly: true, secure: false, maxAge: null }`.

The following are options that can be set in this object.

##### cookie.domain

Specifies the value for the `Domain` `Set-Cookie` attribute. By default, no domain is set, and most clients will consider the cookie to apply to only the current domain.

##### cookie.expires

Specifies the `Date` object to be the value for the `Expires` `Set-Cookie` attribute. By default, no expiration is set, and most clients will consider this a “non-persistent cookie” and will delete it on a condition like exiting a web browser application.

>[!Note] **Session ID** is stored in the cookie VS **Session data** is stored on the server-side

  
  
  
  
  
  

[^1]: The HTTP protocol is a stateless one. This means that **every HTTP request the server receives is independent and does not relate to requests that came prior to it**.
[^1]: The HTTP protocol is a stateless one. This means that **every HTTP request the server receives is independent and does not relate to requests that came prior to it**.