---
tags: functionScope,globalScope,
alias: function,scope
---

## Arrays

Arrays are objects that can be used to store lists of items. The items may be of any type and each one can be accessed using its _index_ - its position in the array.

```js
var arr = [ 'hello world', 90210, false, Math ];

arr[0]; // 'hello world';
arr[1]; // 90210
```

Arrays have a `length` property that indicates how many items are in the array.

```js
var arr = [ 'hello world', 90210, false, Math ];

arr.length; // 4
```

Arrays can be missing elements. Such arrays are said to be _sparse_.

```js
var arr = [];
arr[2] = 5;

arr.length; // 3
arr[0]; // undefined
arr; // [ , , 5 ]
```

In the examples above, arrays are created using literal syntax. It is also possible to create arrays using the `Array` constructor but there is almost never any reason to do so. The parameters you pass to `Array` become elements of the array that is created unless you only pass one parameter and that parameter is a number. In that case that parameter becomes the length of the array that is created. If the number is not a valid length, an error is thrown.

```js
var arr = new Array(5);

arr.length; // 5

arr = new Array(-5); // error
```

## Array methods

Arrays come with many useful methods. For example, to add elements to the end of an array you can use the `push` method, which returns the new length of the array;

```js
var gettysburgWords = [ 'four', 'score' ];

gettysburgWords.push('and'); // 3

gettysburgWords.push('seven', 'years', 'ago'); // 6
```

To add elements to the beginning of an array, you can use `unshift`.

```js
var gettysburgWords = [ 'score' ];

gettysburgWords.unshift('four'); // 2

gettysburgWords[0]; // 'four'
gettysburgWords[1]; // 'score'
```

The name `unshift` makes more sense when you consider the fact that there is also a `shift` method that removes and returns the first element of the array.

```js
var gettysburgWords = [ 'four', 'score' ];

var firstWord = gettysburgWords.shift();

firstWord; // 'four';

gettysburgWords.length; // 1

gettysburgWords[0]; // 'score'
```

To remove the last item, use `pop`;

```js
var gettysburgWords = [ 'four', 'score' ];

var lastWord = gettysburgWords.pop();

lastWord; // 'score';

gettysburgWords.length; // 1

gettysburgWords[0]; // 'four'
```

Both `shift` and `pop` return `undefined` if the array is empty.

To remove items from anywhere in an array, use the `splice` method. This method takes as its first parameter a number indicating the index at which to start removal. The second parameter is the number of items to remove and if none is specified all of the elements after the index specified by the first parameter will be removed. Any additional parameters passed will be added to the array starting at the index specified by the first parameter. This method returns a new array containing the elements that were removed.

```js
var arr = [0, 1, 2, 3];

var removed = arr.splice(1, 2, 'two items missing');

removed[0]; // 1
removed[1]; // 2

arr[0]; // 0
arr[1]; // 'two items missing'
arr[2]; // 3
```

Do not confuse `splice` with the `slice` method. `slice` takes a start index and an end index as parameters and returns a new array consisting of the specified elements. The array that `slice` is called on remains unchanged. The start and end indexes can be negative numbers to indicate positions from the end of the array. If there is no end index, all of the items from the start index are in the returned array. If no parameters are passed to `slice`, a _clone_ of the array is returned.

```js
var arr = [0, 1, 2, 3];

var sliced = arr.slice(1, 3);

sliced; // [1, 2]

sliced = arr.slice(0, -1);

sliced; // [0, 1, 2];

sliced = arr.slice(3);

sliced; // [3]

sliced = arr.slice();

sliced; // [0, 1, 2, 3];

arr; // [0, 1, 2, 3];

sliced == arr; // false
```

---
### Exercises

>[!Warning]-
>The forEach method passes a [callback function](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/javascript-callback-functions-what-are-callbacks-in-js-and-how-to-use-them/) for each element of an array together with the following parameters:
>-   Current Value (required) - The value of the current array element
>-   Index (optional) - The current element's index number
>-   Array (optional) - The array object to which the current element belongs


### `Object.FromEntries`

`toString`

#### Resources:
#forEach
- [Different ways to use the forEach loop](https://dmitripavlutin.com/foreach-iterate-array-javascript/)

>[!Note] REMINDER: