## Xkavate

#### Hooks
- useNavigate
- useEffect
- useDispatch

Node Packages
- react-datepicker : Date Range (github)
- nivo
- material ui (mui)
The following packages encountermany  conflicts. Doing npm audit --force fix prevents  the instalation of other modules

**Create API** 
**ATLAS** VS **MONGODB**

### `RTK Query`
**RTK Query** is a powerful data fetching and caching tool. It is designed to simplify common cases for loading data in a web application, **eliminating the need to hand-write data fetching & caching logic yourself**.

RTK Query is **an optional addon included in the Redux Toolkit package**, and its functionality is built on top of the other APIs in Redux Toolkit.

INFO

To learn how to use RTK Query, see the full ["Redux Essentials" tutorial](https://redux.js.org/tutorials/essentials/part-7-rtk-query-basics) on the Redux core docs site.

## Motivation[​](https://redux-toolkit.js.org/rtk-query/overview#motivation "Direct link to heading")

Web applications normally need to fetch data from a server in order to display it. They also usually need to make updates to that data, send those updates to the server, and keep the cached data on the client in sync with the data on the server. This is made more complicated by the need to implement other behaviors used in today's applications:

-   Tracking loading state in order to show UI spinners
-   Avoiding duplicate requests for the same data
-   Optimistic updates to make the UI feel faster
-   Managing cache lifetimes as the user interacts with the UI

The Redux core has always been very minimal - it's up to developers to write all the actual logic. That means that Redux has never included anything built in to help solve these use cases. The Redux docs have taught [some common patterns for dispatching actions around the request lifecycle to track loading state and request results](https://redux.js.org/tutorials/fundamentals/part-7-standard-patterns#async-request-status), and [Redux Toolkit's `createAsyncThunk` API](https://redux-toolkit.js.org/api/createAsyncThunk) was designed to abstract that typical pattern. However, users still have to write significant amounts of reducer logic to manage the loading state and the cached data.

Over the last couple years, the React community has come to realize that **"data fetching and caching" is really a different set of concerns than "state management"**. While you can use a state management library like Redux to cache data, the use cases are different enough that it's worth using tools that are purpose-built for the data fetching use case.

#### RTK Query includes these APIs:

-   [`createApi()`](https://redux-toolkit.js.org/rtk-query/api/createApi): The core of RTK Query's functionality. It allows you to define a set of endpoints describe how to retrieve data from a series of endpoints, including configuration of how to fetch and transform that data. In most cases, you should use this once per app, with "one API slice per base URL" as a rule of thumb.
-   [`fetchBaseQuery()`](https://redux-toolkit.js.org/rtk-query/api/fetchBaseQuery): A small wrapper around [`fetch`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API) that aims to simplify requests. Intended as the recommended `baseQuery` to be used in `createApi` for the majority of users.
-   [`<ApiProvider />`](https://redux-toolkit.js.org/rtk-query/api/ApiProvider): Can be used as a `Provider` if you **do not already have a Redux store**.
-   [`setupListeners()`](https://redux-toolkit.js.org/rtk-query/api/setupListeners): A utility used to enable `refetchOnMount` and `refetchOnReconnect` behaviors.

##### `setupListeners`

A utility used to enable `refetchOnFocus` and `refetchOnReconnect` behaviors. It requires the `dispatch` method from your store. Calling `setupListeners(store.dispatch)` will configure listeners with the recommended defaults, but you have the option of providing a callback for more granular control.

- parameter for filtering routes 

##### Mongo DB 
-  Looking for user ID in collection: { _id:ObjectId('63701cc1f03239b7f700000e')}
- **NOSQL** VS **SQL**
- -- Enable free Data Access + REMEMBER white listing IPs
- MONGOOSE API DOCS for learning / finding API calls

##### Google Fonts 'INTER'  400(Regular), 600(semi-bold), 700 (Bold)

### .env
- .env.local

##### MOCK API

##### SERVER-SIDE PAGINATION GRID (MUI)
- <DataGrid />


### REACT-REDUX
- Reduce
- Reducer

#### BROWSERIFY
--> To use npm packages on Browser!
  *I use it in project for @nivo/line*
  - nivo.rocks : for graphs and line