## JSON

- `parse`,
- `stringinfy` 
- `err` object
- `parseInt`

## try...catch: 
```js
try {
  nonExistentFunction();
} catch (error) {
  console.error(error);
  // expected output: ReferenceError: nonExistentFunction is not defined
  // Note - error messages will vary depending on browser
}
```

## [Syntax](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/try...catch#syntax "Permalink to Syntax")

```js
try {
  tryStatements
} catch (exceptionVar) {
  catchStatements
} finally {
  finallyStatements
}
```

## localStorage

### localStorage VS Cookies
**Cookies are intended to be read by the server, whereas localStorage can only be read by the browser**. Thus, cookies are restricted to small data volumes, while localStorage can store more data

Local Storage is used to read and write data in the browser's storage. The data is persistent and has no expiry date. The data is stored in key-value pairs. The server has no access to the client's local storage.

An example of using local storage is storing the user's color mode preference (light or dark mode). This piece of information is generally not necessary for the server to know, and is used to ensure that the user's preference is reflected on the website.

Local storage is specific to the protocol of a domain. So, the information returned for a website with HTTP protocol is different than the information returned for that same website with HTTPS protocol.

--- 
## Exercises

1. Purpose: Make a JSON validator website
      - [ ] It should have a `<textarea>` where users can input JSON.
      - [ ] On click, it checks whether the JSON is valid or not..
      - [ ]  After clicking a button, a message should appear.

  2. Write a function `translateNumberToGerman`
  - [ ] Tries to get a number between 1 and 10 by calling another function `askForNumber`

!! const json = JSON.parse(textArea.textContent);