## CS50
The **heap** is part of your process's address space. The **heap** can be grown or shrunk; you manipulate it by calling `brk(2)` or `sbrk(2)`. This is in fact what `malloc(3)` does.

Allocating from the **heap** is more convenient than allocating **memory** on the stack because it persists after the calling routine returns; thus, you can call a routine, say `funcA()`, to allocate a bunch of **memory** and fill it with something; that **memory** will still be valid after `funcA()` returns. If `funcA()` allocates a local array (on the stack) then when `funcA()` returns, the on-stack array is gone.

A drawback of using the **heap** is that if you forget to release **heap**-allocated **memory**, you may exhaust it. The failure to release **heap**-allocated **memory** (e.g., failing to `free()` **memory** gotten from `malloc()`) is sometimes called a **memory** leak.

Another nice feature of the **heap**, vs. just allocating a local array/struct/whatever on the stack, is that you get a return value saying whether your allocation succeeded; if you try to allocate a local array on the stack and you run out, you don't get an error code; typically your thread will simply be aborted.

## Advantages of heap memory:

-   Heap doesn’t have any limit on memory size.
-   It allows you to access variables globally.
-   Garbage collection runs on the heap memory to free the memory used by the object.
-   The heap method is also used in the Priority Queue.

## Disadvantages of heap memory:

-   It takes too much time to execute compared to the stack.
-   It takes more time to compute.
-   It can provide the maximum memory an OS can provide
-   Memory management is more complicated in heap memory as it is used globally.

## Problems that can be solved with heap memory:

The following are some important points about Garbage Collection.

-   The Java Virtual Machine invokes garbage collection to get rid of unused heap memory objects. It removes every object that is not being used anymore by the running Java program. In this process, unused memory is freed up for other new objects to use.
-   Garbage collection calls the **finalize()** method of an object before removing it from memory and giving it a chance to be cleaned up. If the programmer does not override this method, the default finalize method will be invoked (the method defined in the Object class).
-   Garbage collection is invoked based on the size of dynamically allocated memory from the heap. It is slow, and hard to predict. Programs with real-time performance constraints may find this difficult to handle.

```c++
`int` `Geeks()`

`{`

    `// Nothing allocated yet excluding the`

    `// pointer itself, which is allocated`

    `// here on the stack.`

    `char``* p;`

    `// Memory allocated on the stack.`

    `bool` `flag =` `true``;`

    `if` `(flag) {`

        `// Create 1000 bytes on the stack`

        `char` `buffer[1000];`

        `// Create 1000 bytes on the heap`

        `p =` `new` `char``[1000];`

    `}`

    `// buffer is deallocated here but pointer`

    `// p is not Here occurs a memory leak,`

    `// We have to call delete[] p;`

`}`
```