## HTTP

**The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP)** is an _application-level_ protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypermedia information systems.
This is the foundation for data communication for the World Wide Web (i.e. internet) since 1990. 
HTTP is a generic and stateless protocol which can be used for other purposes as well using extensions of its **_request methods_**, **_error codes_**, and **_headers_**.

Basically, HTTP is a TCP/IP based communication protocol, that is used to deliver data (HTML files, image files, query results, etc.) on the World Wide Web. The default port is TCP 80, but other ports can be used as well. It provides a standardized way for computers to communicate with each other. HTTP specification specifies how clients' request data will be constructed and sent to the server, and how the servers respond to these requests.

## Basic Features

There are three basic features that make HTTP a simple but powerful protocol:

-   **HTTP is connectionless:** The HTTP client, i.e., a browser initiates an HTTP request and after a request is made, the client waits for the response. The server processes the request and sends a response back after which client disconnect the connection. So client and server knows about each other during current request and response only. Further requests are made on new connection like client and server are new to each other.
    
-   **HTTP is media independent:** It means, any type of data can be sent by HTTP as long as both the client and the server know how to handle the data content. It is required for the client as well as the server to specify the content type using appropriate MIME-type.
    
-   **HTTP is stateless:** As mentioned above, HTTP is connectionless and it is a direct result of HTTP being a stateless protocol. The server and client are aware of each other only during a current request. Afterwards, both of them forget about each other. Due to this nature of the protocol, neither the client nor the browser can retain information between different requests across the web pages.

### Client

(_An HTTP "client" is a program (Web browser or any other client) that establishes a connection to a server for the purpose of sending one or more HTTP request messages._)

The HTTP client sends a request to the server in the form of a request method, URI, and protocol version, followed by a MIME-like message containing request modifiers, client information, and possible body content over a TCP/IP connection.

  

### Server

(_An HTTP "client" is a program (Web browser or any other client) that establishes a connection to a server for the purpose of sending one or more HTTP request messages._)

The HTTP server responds with a status line, including the message's protocol version and a success or error code, followed by a MIME-like message containing server information, entity meta information, and possible entity-body content.

**NB:**

- **request**, requests from client to server

- **response**, responses from server to client


#### Generic message
HTTP requests and HTTP responses use a generic message format  for transferring the required data. This generic message format consists of the following four items.

-   A Start-line
-   Zero or more header fields followed by CRLF
-   An empty line (i.e., a line with nothing preceding the CRLF) 
    indicating the end of the header fields
-   Optionally a message-body

### Server Response Message

-   A Status-line
-   Zero or more header (General|Response|Entity) fields followed by CRLF
-   An empty line (i.e., a line with nothing preceding the CRLF) indicating the end of the header fields
-   Optionally a message-body
`Status-Line = HTTP-Version SP Status-Code SP Reason-Phrase CRLF`

#### Status Code
The Status-Code element is a 3-digit integer where first digit of the Status-Code defines the class of response and the last two digits do not have any categorization role. There are 5 values for the first digit:
1 **1xx: Informational**
It means the request was received and the process is continuing.

2 **2xx: Success**
It means the action was successfully received, understood, and accepted.

3 **3xx: Redirection**
It means further action must be taken in order to complete the request.

4 **4xx: Client Error**
It means the request contains incorrect syntax or cannot be fulfilled.

5 **5xx: Server Error**
It means the server failed to fulfill an apparently valid request.

## Message Start-Line

A start-line will have the following generic syntax:

`start-line = Request-Line | Status-Line`

`GET /hello.htm HTTP/1.1     (This is Request-Line sent by the client)`

`HTTP/1.1 200 OK             (This is Status-Line sent by the server)`

## Header Fields

HTTP header fields provide required information about the request or response, or about the object sent in the message body.

There are 4 types of HTTP message headers:

-   **General-header:** These header fields have general applicability for both request and response messages.
    
-   **Request-header:** These header fields have applicability only for request messages.
    
-   **Response-header:** These header fields have applicability only for response messages.
    
-   **Entity-header:** These header fields _define meta information about the entity-body_ or, if no body is present, about the resource identified by the request.

All the above mentioned headers follow the same generic format and each of the header field consists of a name followed by a colon (**:**) and the field value as follows:
`message-header = field-name ":" [ field-value ]`

## Message Body

The message body part is optional for an HTTP message but if it is available, then it is used to carry the entity-body associated with the request or response. If entity body is associated, then usually **Content-Type** and **Content-Length** headers lines specify the nature of the body associated.

A message body is the one which carries the actual HTTP request data (including form data and uploaded, etc.) and HTTP response data from the server ( including files, images, etc.). Shown below is the simple content of a message body:

```html
<html>
   <body>
   
      <h1>Hello, World!</h1>
   
   </body>
</html>
```

### Request Method

The request method indicates the method to be performed on the resource identified by the given Request-URI.

The method is **case-sensitive** and _should always be mentioned in uppercase_.

  

### Request-URI

The Request-URI is a Uniform Resource Identifier and identifies the resource upon which to apply the request. 

Following are the most commonly used forms to specify an URI:
`Request-URI = "*" | absoluteURI | abs_path | authority`

1 The asterisk ***** is used when an HTTP request does not apply to a particular resource, but to the server itself, and is only allowed when the method used does not necessarily apply to a resource. For example:

**OPTIONS * HTTP/1.1**

2 The **absoluteURI** is used when an HTTP request is being made to a proxy. The proxy is requested to forward the request or service from a valid cache, and return the response. For example:

**GET http://www.w3.org/pub/WWW/TheProject.html HTTP/1.1**

3 The most common form of Request-URI is that used to identify a resource on an origin server or gateway. For example, a client wishing to retrieve a resource directly from the origin server would create a TCP connection to port 80 of the host "www.w3.org" and send the following lines:

**GET /pub/WWW/TheProject.html HTTP/1.1**

**Host: www.w3.org**

>[!Note] The absolute path cannot be empty; if none is present in the original URI, it MUST be given as "/" (the server root).

**The ":authority" pseudo-header field includes the authority portion of the target URI**. authority = [ userinfo "@" ] host [ ":" port ] Read more in RFC7540. In HTTP/1.x, it is equivalent with host header field

The HTTP/2 `:authority` pseudo-header is a stricter, mandatory, information about the host authority (i.e. host name and host port).  
In HTTP/1.1, the host authority is derived from multiple sources, and may even be absent, causing a number of confusing behaviors that depend on server implementations. For example, the authority could be present in the HTTP/1.1 request target, when it is in [absolute form](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7230#section-5.3.2).  
If the HTTP/1.1 request target is in [origin form](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7230#section-5.3.1), typically the authority is defined by the [`Host` header](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7230#section-5.3.2). However, a HTTP/1.1 request could be of this form:

An example absolute-form of request-line would be:

     GET http://www.example.org/pub/WWW/TheProject.html HTTP/1.1
  

### HTTP-Methods

##### GET Method

A GET request retrieves data from a web server by specifying parameters in the URL portion of the request. This is the main method used for document retrieval.

  

##### POST Method

The POST method is used when you want to send some data to the server, for example, file update, form data, etc

##### HTTP - URL Encoding

https://www.tutorialspoint.com/http/http_url_encoding.htm


## NEXT: [Anatomy of an HTTP Transaction](https://nodejs.org/en/docs/guides/anatomy-of-an-http-transaction/)