
## FileSystem fs

The File and Directory Entries API interface **`FileSystem`** is used to represent a file system. These objects can be obtained from the [`filesystem`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/FileSystemEntry/filesystem "filesystem") property on any file system entry. Some browsers offer additional APIs to create and manage file systems, such as Chrome's [`requestFileSystem()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/requestFileSystem "requestFileSystem()") method.

## [Basic concepts](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/FileSystem#basic_concepts "Permalink to Basic concepts")

There are two ways to get access to a `FileSystem` object:

1.  You can directly ask for one representing a sandboxed file system created just for your web app directly by calling `window.requestFileSystem()`. If that call is successful, it executes a callback handler, which receives as a parameter a `FileSystem` object describing the file system.
2.  You can get it from a file system entry object, through its [`filesystem`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/FileSystemEntry/filesystem "filesystem") property.

The **fs.readFileSync() method** is an inbuilt application programming interface of fs module which is used to read the file and return its content.   
In `fs.readFile()` method, we can read a file in a **_non-blocking asynchronous way_**, but in `fs.readFileSync()` method, we can read files in a **_synchronous way_**.
> **i.e.** 
> we are telling node.js to block other parallel process and do the current file reading process. That is, when the fs.readFileSync() method is called the original node program stops executing, and node waits for the fs.readFileSync() function to get executed, after getting the result of the method the remaining node program is executed.  
 

**Syntax:**  

fs.readFileSync( path, options )

**Parameters:**  

-   **path:** It takes the relative path of the text file. The path can be of URL type. The file can also be a file descriptor. If both the files are in the same folder just give the filename in quotes.
-   **options:** It is an optional parameter which contains the encoding and flag, the encoding contains data specification. It’s default value is _null_ which returns raw buffer and the flag contains indication of operations in the file. It’s default value is ‘r’.

**Return Value:** This method returns the content of the file.

The **fs.stat() method** is used to return information about the given file or directory. It returns an **fs.Stat** object which has several properties and methods to get details about the file or directory.

**Syntax:**

fs.stat( path, options, callback )

**Parameters:** This method accept three parameters as mentioned above and described below:

-   **path:** It holds the path of the file or directory that has to be checked. It can be a String, Buffer or URL.
-   **options:** It is an object that can be used to specify optional parameters that will affect the output. It has one optional parameter:
    -   **bigint:** It is a boolean value which specifies if the numeric values returned in the fs.Stats object are bigint. The default value is false.
-   **callback:** It is the function that would be called when the method is executed.
    -   **err:** It is an error that would be thrown if the method
    -   **stats:** It is the Stats object that contains the details of the file path.

# JSON.stringify()

The **`JSON.stringify()`** method converts a JavaScript value to a JSON string, optionally replacing values if a replacer function is specified or optionally including only the specified properties if a replacer array is specified.

## [Syntax](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/JSON/stringify#syntax "Permalink to Syntax")

```
JSON.stringify(value)
JSON.stringify(value, replacer)
JSON.stringify(value, replacer, space)
```

Copy to Clipboard

### [Parameters](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/JSON/stringify#parameters "Permalink to Parameters")

`value`

The value to convert to a JSON string.

`replacer` Optional

A function that alters the behavior of the stringification process, or an array of strings or numbers naming properties of `value` that should be included in the output. If `replacer` is an array, all elements that are not strings or numbers (can be either primitives or wrapper objects), including [`Symbol`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Symbol) values, are completely ignored. If `replacer` is anything other than a function or an array (e.g. [`null`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/null) or not provided), all properties of the object are included in the resulting JSON string.

`space` Optional

A string or number that's used to insert white space (including indentation, line break characters, etc.) into the output JSON string for readability purposes.

If this is a number, it indicates the number of space characters to be used as indentation, clamped to 10 (that is, any number greater than `10` is treated as if it were `10`). Values less than 1 indicate that no space should be used.

If this is a string, the string (or the first 10 characters of the string, if it's longer than that) is inserted before every nested object or array.

If `space` is anything other than a string or number (can be either a primitive or a wrapper object) — for example, is [`null`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/null) or not provided — no white space is used.

# Symbol type

By specification, only two primitive types may serve as object property keys:

-   string type, or
-   symbol type.

Otherwise, if one uses another type, such as number, it’s autoconverted to string. So that `obj[1]` is the same as `obj["1"]`, and `obj[true]` is the same as `obj["true"]`.

Until now we’ve been using only strings.

Now let’s explore symbols, see what they can do for us.

## [Symbols](https://javascript.info/symbol#symbols)

A “symbol” represents a unique identifier.

A value of this type can be created using `Symbol()`:

`let id = Symbol();`

Upon creation, we can give symbols a description (also called a symbol name), mostly useful for debugging purposes:

`// id is a symbol with the description "id" let id = Symbol("id");`

Symbols are guaranteed to be unique. Even if we create many symbols with exactly the same description, they are different values. The description is just a label that doesn’t affect anything.

For instance, here are two symbols with the same description – they are not equal:

[](https://javascript.info/symbol# "run")

[](https://javascript.info/symbol# "open in sandbox")

`let id1 = Symbol("id"); let id2 = Symbol("id");  _alert(id1 == id2); // false_`

If you are familiar with Ruby or another language that also has some sort of “symbols” – please don’t be misguided. JavaScript symbols are different.

So, to summarize, a symbol is a “primitive unique value” with an optional description. Let’s see where we can use them.

#### [Symbol part2](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/62837749/nodejs-14-5-filesystem-api-what-is-the-dirent-symboltype-property)
```javascript
class Dirent {
  constructor(name, type) {
    this.name = name;
    this[kType] = type;
  }

  isDirectory() {
    return this[kType] === UV_DIRENT_DIR;
  }

  isFile() {
    return this[kType] === UV_DIRENT_FILE;
  }

  isBlockDevice() {
    return this[kType] === UV_DIRENT_BLOCK;
  }

  isCharacterDevice() {
    return this[kType] === UV_DIRENT_CHAR;
  }

  isSymbolicLink() {
    return this[kType] === UV_DIRENT_LINK;
  }

  isFIFO() {
    return this[kType] === UV_DIRENT_FIFO;
  }

  isSocket() {
    return this[kType] === UV_DIRENT_SOCKET;
  }
}
```

If you then look for `kType`, you find this:

```javascript
const kType = Symbol('type');
```

And, all the values in that code such as `UV_DIRECT_DIR` and `UV_DIRENT_FILE` are constants imported from libuv that describe the type of directory entry.

So, it appears that the property you are asking about contains the libuv type for the directory entry and they are using a Symbol as the property name because they do not intend for that internal implementation detail to be used publicly or documented.

If you don't know what libuv is, it's the cross platform library that nodejs uses to access OS services. It abstracts some operating system details into a common interface to allow more nodejs code to be written once and work on multiple platforms (Win/Mac/Unix).

---

The underlying UV constants mentioned above are defined [here](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/3abb52fdb683c9c9ade1b2c7d16d0f640bbaacfd/deps/uv/include/uv.h#L1130) in C++ code in libuv in `uv.h`.

```javascript
typedef enum {
  UV_DIRENT_UNKNOWN,
  UV_DIRENT_FILE,
  UV_DIRENT_DIR,
  UV_DIRENT_LINK,
  UV_DIRENT_FIFO,
  UV_DIRENT_SOCKET,
  UV_DIRENT_CHAR,
  UV_DIRENT_BLOCK
} uv_dirent_type_t;
```