---
tags: functionScope,globalScope,
alias: function,scope
---

# Global scope and the global object

## Undeclared assignment7


## Hoisting
In _both_ global and local scope, declarations of variables with `var` are processed prior to the execution of all other code, including assignments.

# Local scope

Variables declared in a function are in local scope. They are not accessible outside of the function.

```js
var fn = function() {
    var n = 0;
    console.log(typeof n);
};

fn(); //logs 'number'
console.log(typeof n); //logs 'undefined'
```

### Immediately-invoked function expressions (iife)

A common pattern is to define a function without assigning it to a variable and immediately execute it. The purpose of this is to keep variables declared within the function out of the outer scope (ES 6 provides other ways to accomplish this which we will discuss at a later time).

```js
(function() {
    var a = 1;
    console.log(typeof a); //logs 'number'
})();

console.log(typeof a); //logs 'undefined'
```

Note the parentheses around the function expression. These are necessary for the parser to differentiate it from a function declaration. There are other ways to do this but parentheses are the most popular.

### Functions are first-class

Functions in Javascript can be returned from functions and can be passed to other functions as parameters. They can be assigned to variables and object properties and can be stored in arrays. They are _first-class_ citizens.

Functions in Javascript are objects. Functions can have properties assigned to them, as we have already seen with the `isArray` method of the `Array` constructor. Functions are a special kind of object that can be _called_.

## The `arguments` object

When a function has been called and is running there is available to it in its local scope an `arguments` object. The `arguments` object is not an array but it is _array-like_. It has a `length` property whose value corresponds to the number of parameters that was passed to the function. It also has properties whose names are integers and hold the values that were passed as parameters.

```js
function fn(a, b, c) {
    console.log(arguments[0] == a); //logs 'true'
    console.log(arguments[1] == b); //logs 'true'
    console.log(arguments[2] == c); //logs 'true'
}
```

The `arguments` object is useful when the parameters passed to a function do not correspond to the parameters that were named and listed in the function definition.

```js
var exclaim = function(a) {
    var exclamation = a;
    if (arguments[1]) {
        exclamation = arguments[1];
    }
    return exclamation + '!!!';
};

exclaim('hello'); //'hello!!!'
exclaim('hello', 'goodbye'); //'goodbye!!!'
```

### Nested functions

Functions can be defined in other functions. Functions that are defined in other functions have access to the local scope of the functions they are defined in.

```js
var outer = function() {
    var a = 100;

    var inner = function() {
        var b = 'hello';
        console.log(typeof a, typeof b);
    };

    inner(); //logs 'number', 'string'
    console.log(typeof a, typeof b); //logs 'number', 'undefined'
};
outer();
```

Note that this does not just apply to declared variables but also to parameters that are passed in, since they are in local scope as well.

```js
var getCounter = function(num) {
    return function() {
        return num++;
    };
};

var counter = getCounter(3);
counter(); //3
counter(); //4
counter(); //5
```

### Callbacks
> Functions that are passed to other functions are often called _callbacks_.

```js
setTimeout(function() {
    console.log('hello');
}, 1000);
```

The built-in function `setTimeout` takes a callback as its first parameter. The second parameter is a number of milliseconds. After the number of milliseconds passes, `setTimeout` calls the callback.

### Recursion

> [!Info] Functions can call themselves! This is called recursion.
 
### Anonymous functions and named function expressions

All function declarations result in functions that have names. The function expressions in the examples above (including those that assign a function to a variable) do not have names. They are _anonymous functions_.

What if you want to define a recursive function using a function expression? You can use a _named function expression_. The name will be in the local scope of the function it names and inaccessible to the outer scope.

```js
var fn = function me(str) {
    if (!str) {
        return me('hello');
    }
    return str + '!';
};

fn('hi'); //'hi!'
fn(); // 'hello!';

typeof fn; //'function';
typeof me; //'undefined'
```
---
## Notes

#### Add 2 numbers

Let's start by creating a function called add that can accept 2 arguments and that returns their sum.

> [!info] **examples/js/add_2_numbers.js**  
```js
1.  function add(x, y) {
2.      return x+y;
3.  }
4.  console.log(add(2, 3));      // 5
5.  console.log(add(-1, 1));     // 0

7.  console.log(add(1, 1, 1));   // 2
```
We can use Node.js to run the code node add_2_numbers.js and the result will the the numbers seen next to each row.

As you can observe, the first two calls gave the correct result. The third one, where we passed 3 numbers return 2, which might be surprising to someone who does not know the implementation of the add function, but which is correct. The bigger issue is that it did not issue any warning or error complaining about the unused third parameter.

#### Add 3 numbers

We can try to create another add function that will accept 3 parameters and will return the sum of all 3. The results are next to the lines:

> [!Info]  **examples/js/add_3_numbers.js**
```js
1.  function add(x, y) {
2.      return x+y;
3.  }
4.  function add(x, y, z) {
5.      return x+y+z;
6.  }

8.  console.log(add(2, 3));      // NaN
9.  console.log(add(-1, 1));     // NaN

11.  console.log(add(1, 1, 1));   // 3
```
**_JavaScript does not allow us to define the same function more than once with different signatures. It just silently overrides the previous function with the new function of the same name. So we would get the same results even if we remove the declaration with the 2 parameters._**

What happens here is that in the first two cases, because we only passed 2 arguments, the third argument is undefined and when we add two numbers and undefined our result is NaN - **not a number**.

**The third case, when we pass 3 arguments works as expected.**

#### arguments, the object holding the passed arguments

The **correct solution** is to **_==define a function with empty signature, as if it did not accept any parameters==_**, and then to look at the arguments object that holds all the parameters.

We can iterate over the element using a for loop and add them all to an internal variable.

As you can see from the results this works even if the user did not pass any argument.

> [!Info] **examples/js/sum_numbers.js**
```js
>  1.  function sum() {
2.  var s = 0;
3.  for (var i=0; i < arguments.length; i++) {
4.  s += arguments[i];
5.  }
6.  return s;
7.  }

9.  console.log(sum(2, 3)); // 5
10.  console.log(sum(-10, 1)); // -9
11.  console.log(sum(1, 1, 1, 1)); // 4
12.  console.log(sum()); // 0
```

##### setTimeout()

The global **`setTimeout()`** method sets a timer which executes a function or specified piece of code once the timer expires.

###### Syntax
```js
setTimeout(code)
setTimeout(code, delay)

setTimeout(functionRef)
setTimeout(functionRef, delay)
setTimeout(functionRef, delay, param1)
setTimeout(functionRef, delay, param1, param2)
setTimeout(functionRef, delay, param1, param2, /* … ,*/ paramN)
```

###### Parameters
`functionRef`
A [`function`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) to be executed after the timer expires.

`code`
An alternative syntax that allows you to include a string instead of a function, which is compiled and executed when the timer expires. This syntax is **not recommended** for the same reasons that make using [`eval()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/eval) a security risk.


###### Return Value]
The returned `timeoutID` is a positive integer value which identifies the timer created by the call to `setTimeout()`. This value can be passed to [`clearTimeout()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/clearTimeout "clearTimeout()") to cancel the timeout.

It is guaranteed that a `timeoutID` value will never be reused by a subsequent call to `setTimeout()` or `setInterval()` on the same object (a window or a worker). However, different objects use separate pools of IDs.

> [!Info] Description
> *  Timeouts are cancelled using [`clearTimeout()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/clearTimeout).
>  * To call a function repeatedly (e.g., every _N_ milliseconds), consider using [`setInterval()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/setInterval).

---
#setTimeout
## How to Use setTimeout() in JavaScript

The `setTimeout()` method allows you to execute a piece of code after a certain amount of time has passed. You can think of the method as a way to set a timer to run JavaScript code at a certain time.

For example, the code below will print "Hello World" to the JavaScript console after 2 seconds have passed:

```js
setTimeout(function(){
    console.log("Hello World");
}, 2000);

console.log("setTimeout() example...");
```
>setTimeout() method example

The code above will first print "setTimeout() example..." to the console, and then print "Hello World" once two seconds have passed since the code has been executed by JavaScript.

The `setTimeout()` method syntax is as follows:

```js
setTimeout(function, milliseconds, parameter1, parameter2, ...);
```
> setTimeout() method syntax

The first parameter of the `setTimeout()` method is a JavaScript `function` that you want to execute. You can write the `function` directly when passing it, or you can also refer to a named function as shown below:

```js
function greeting(){
  console.log("Hello World");
}

setTimeout(greeting);
```
> setTimeout() method using named function as its argument

Next, you can pass the `milliseconds` parameter, which will be the amount of time JavaScript will wait before executing the code.

One second is equal to one thousand milliseconds, so if you want to wait for 3 seconds, you need to pass `3000` as the second argument:

```js
function greeting(){
  console.log("Hello World");
}

setTimeout(greeting, 3000);
```
> setTimeout() method sleeping for 3 seconds

If you omit the second parameter, then `setTimeout()` will immediately execute the passed `function` without waiting at all.

Finally, you can also pass additional parameters to the `setTimeout()` method that you can use inside the `function` as follows:

```js
function greeting(name, role){
  console.log(`Hello, my name is ${name}`);
  console.log(`I'm a ${role}`);
}

setTimeout(greeting, 3000, "Nathan", "Software developer");
```
> setTimeout() with additional parameters for the function

Now you may be thinking, "why not just pass the parameters directly to the function?"

This is because if you pass the parameters directly like this:

```js
setTimeout(greeting("Nathan", "Software developer"), 3000);
```
Then JavaScript will immediately execute the `function` without waiting, because you're passing a _function call_ and not a _function reference_ as the first parameter.

This is why if you need to pass any parameters to the function, you need to pass them from the `setTimeout()` method.

## How to Cancel the setTimeout Method
#clearTimeout

You can also prevent the `setTimeout()` method from executing the `function` by using the `clearTimeout()` method.

The `clearTimeout()` method requires the `id` returned by `setTimeout()` to know which `setTimeout()` method to cancel:

```js
clearTimeout(id);
```
>  clearTimeout() syntax

Here's an example of the `clearTimeout()` method in action:

```js
const timeoutId = setTimeout(function(){
    console.log("Hello World");
}, 2000);

clearTimeout(timeoutId);
console.log(`Timeout ID ${timeoutId} has been cleared`);
```
> clearTimeout() method in action

If you have multiple `setTimeout()` methods, then you need to save the IDs returned by each method call and then call `clearTimeout()` method as many times as needed to clear them all.

---

## The Arguments Object
#arguments #object #method

The **'==Argument Object==**' is a built-in  object of JavaScript.
-> It contains an array of the arguments used when the function was called (invoked).

> [!Info] Examples

We can use a function to **find the highest value in a list of numbers**:
```js
x = findMax(1, 123, 500, 115, 44, 88);  
  
function findMax() {  
  let max = -Infinity;  
  for (let i = 0; i < arguments.length; i++) {  
    if (arguments[i] > max) {  
      max = arguments[i];  
    }  
  }  
  return max;  
}
```

Or create a function to **sum all input values**:
```js
x = sumAll(1, 123, 500, 115, 44, 88);  
  
function sumAll() {  
  let sum = 0;  
  for (let i = 0; i < arguments.length; i++) {  
    sum += arguments[i];  
  }  
  return sum;  
}
```

# [[Infinity]]

The global property **`Infinity`** is a numeric value representing infinity.

---
