## Final Project

1.  Documentation for your project in the form of a Markdown file called `README.md`. This documentation is to be a user’s manual for your project. Though the structure of your documentation is entirely up to you, it should be incredibly clear to the staff how and where, if applicable, to compile, configure, and use your project. Your documentation should be at least several paragraphs in length. It should not be necessary for us to contact you with questions regarding your project after its submission. Hold our hand with this documentation; be sure to answer in your documentation any questions that you think we might have while testing your work.
2.  A “design document” for your project in the form of a Markdown file called `DESIGN.md` that discusses, technically, how you implemented your project and why you made the design decisions you did. Your design document should be at least several paragraphs in length. Whereas your documentation is meant to be a user’s manual, consider your design document your opportunity to give the staff a technical tour of your project underneath its hood.
3.  Any and all files required to run your software (even if intended for some infrastructure other than CS50 IDE), including source code as well as, if applicable, configuration files, Makefiles, sample inputs, SQLite databases, and so forth. Needless to say, all source code should be thoroughly commented.
4.  A short video (that’s no more than 2 minutes in length) in which you present your project to the world, as with slides, screenshots, voiceover, and/or live action, **ideally with you yourself appearing in the video**. Your video should somehow include your project’s title, your name and year, your dorm/house and concentration, and any other details that you’d like to convey to viewers. See [CS171’s tips on how to make a “screencast”](http://www.cs171.org/2015/screencast/) though you’re welcome to use a phone or actual camera. Upload your video to [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/) as “public” or “unlisted” and **include the URL of the video in your README.md file**.

#### [Grading Rubric](https://cs50.yale.edu/2022/fall/project/#grading-rubric)

1.  Video (3 pts)
    1.  **Excellent (3pts):** Succinct, interesting, produced with care.
    2.  **Good (2pts):** This video demonstrates effort and thoughtfulness.
    3.  **Fair (1pt):** This video gets some points about the project across, but could be improved substantially with a bit more time.
2.  Documentation (3 pts)
    1.  **Excellent (3pts):** `README.md` is very well-written, with care and clear consideration for how someone might use the project.
    2.  **Good (2pts):** Thoughtful documentation in `README.md`.
    3.  **Fair (1pt):** A good attempt at documentation in `README.md`, but one that could be improved substantially with more time.
3.  Correctness (5 pts)
    1.  **Excellent (5pts):** Functional and polished. Project delivers most of the **GOOD** outcomes defined in the project proposal. There is evidence that the project’s features reflect two problem sets worth of work per student in the group.
    2.  **Good (3pts):** Project delivers some of the **GOOD** outcomes defined in the project proposal, but may be missing some substantial minimal features.
    3.  **Fair (1pt):** Project does not meet any of the **GOOD** outcomes specified in the proposal.
4.  Design (3 pts)
    1.  **Excellent (3pts):** `DESIGN.md` is very well-written, with care and clear consideration of design and project process.
    2.  **Good (2pts):** `DESIGN.md` is decently thoughtful and well-articulated.
    3.  **Fair (1pt):** The design documentation is only partially attempted.
5.  Style (3 pts)
    1.  **Excellent (3pts):** Code is readable, consistent, and written with care.
    2.  **Good (2pts):** Code style was given thought and executed decently well.
    3.  **Fair (1pt):** Code style reflects little effort.